Hello everyone.
In this lesson we are going to learn how to split our javascript up into multiple files so that we can
stay super organized.
Let's jump into the action.
So right now I want you to open up your main JavaScript file so that lives in app Assets Scripts.
So app dot J.S. let's give ourselves a goal.
So we have this constructor function named person and then we're using it twice.
Right here we're creating a new instance of person saving as John and then here we're creating a new
instance of person and saving as Jane.
So we can look at these four lines of code and they immediately make sense.
Now in terms of organization wouldn't it be nice if the blueprint or this constructor function or this
class could be tucked away into its own separate file.
Well setting that up is actually very simple.
So right now do this with me select this function the person function so highlight it and then cut it
into your clipboard.
All right now let's go create a brand new file the paste that code into.
So within our scripts folder let's create a new sub folder.
So right click on the scripts folder and choose New Folder and let's name this new folder modules we
could name it anything but let's choose this so you and I are on the same page.
OK.
Now through the remainder of this course anytime we create a new feature using JavaScript.
Well each new feature should have its own new separate file in this modules folder.
Right.
We want to continue this trend of each file having a single responsibility.
So let's do this within the modules folder.
Let's right click and choose new file and let's name the new file person dot j x within the new file
go ahead and paste in your clipboard now at the very bottom of this file.
So even after this closing curly bracket was dropped down to a new line and type this out with me.
Export default person so export default allows us to choose what this file will export.
If another file tries to import this file so then this final word here person.
This just matches what we want to export write our function that has that matching name of person.
So this function is what will be used if another file imports this file.
Let's go ahead and save this and then jump back into our app dot J.S. file.
Let's scroll to the very top of app dot J.S. and maybe right after this first line let's add a new line
and say import person from.
And then we give it a file path.
So quotes dot slash to start in the current directory and then go into the modules directory Slash.
And then just grab the file named person you could include the DOT J.
Yes but it's actually not necessary.
OK.
And this line of code will take whatever was being exported from this file and make it available in
this file from this name right.
Uppercase person.
This means that even though our blueprint for what a person should be no longer lives in this file this
code still makes perfect sense.
Right.
Our person blueprint is made available by importing this file.
So if we go ahead and save this file actually to make sure it's working let's change John Doe's favorite
color to red.
And now if we save this back in the browser.
Cool.
Hello.
My name is John Doe and my favorite color is red.
At this point let's change gears.
So back in your text editor we've successfully learned how to split javascript code into separate files
so we can cross that off our list.
Now what I want to show you is an alternate way to create a blueprint to show you what I mean.
I want you to jump back into our person dot J.S. file.
So we have this person function and we can call this a constructor function.
It is our blueprint for what a person object should be.
However in JavaScript there are multiple ways to create a quote blueprint for an object.
So this traditional constructor function is one way of doing it.
Right now I want to show you another way of creating a blueprint that is known as class syntax.
So within person dot J Yes we're going to delete this function.
We can keep the export line.
But before we delete this function let's copy the console dot log line into our clipboard to save us
a good amount of typing.
So just select this entire console dot log line until the very end.
Copy that in your clipboard.
OK with that copy Let's delete this entire function and we're going to recreate it using class syntax.
If you've ever worked with a different programming language before like C++ or Java or BHP then you
are familiar with the idea of a class right.
It's a blueprint for an object.
So in Javascript we can just say class and then the name of the class let's say person and then curly
brackets within the curly brackets we want to provide it a constructor so he's say constructor parentheses
curly brackets let's dropdown in between those curly brackets.
Now within a class constructor is a reserved or special word.
So javascript will know to call the constructor when a new object is created using our class.
Now within the parentheses for constructor this is where we include our parameters.
So this is where we would include name comma favorite color.
OK.
Now within the constructor curly brackets this is where we are free to create properties so we can say
this dot name equals name and then in the new line we could say this dot favorite color equals favorite
color.
So the constructor is where you receive incoming values.
Right.
If we called the person class and said create a new person with the name of John Doe and then we also
passed into a favorite color of red it's the constructors job to receive those values and perhaps do
something interesting with them like store them at properties.
OK.
Now after the closing curly bracket for our constructor but still within the overall closing curly bracket
for our class.
So right where the cursor is blinking.
This is where we are free to add a method.
Now when we're using class syntax we don't need to say this dot and then a method name with class syntax
you can simply just type the method name so you can actually just say greet.
Right.
That's the name of our method that we want.
So Greek parentheses curly brackets and then within those curly brackets this is where you can paste
back in your clipboard and that's it.
We just created a blueprint using the class syntax.
Now I do want to point out that technically behind the scenes javascript is still not using classes
right.
It's not using classical inheritance.
Behind the scenes the guts of JavaScript are still running based on prototypes.
However a few years ago javascript added the class syntax which is just a bit of syntactic sugar so
that if you're already familiar with the idea of a class you can go ahead and use that in JavaScript.
Now let's go ahead and save this file and then let's jump back into our app file to make sure things
are working.
So maybe change John Doe's favorite color to purple.
Let's go ahead and save that as well and then back in the browser.
Cool.
Hello my name is John Doe and my favorite color is purple.
Now while we're talking about classes I want to show you one of the coolest features.
So let's jump back into apt.
J.S. and classes make inheritance a piece of cake.
But what in the world does inheritance.
Well let's imagine that John is a baby and Jane is an adult now both a baby and an adult are both considered
a person.
Right.
Both babies and adults have names and they can both have a favorite color.
But what if we wanted to create a new class named adult and we want the adult class to have all the
same abilities of the Person class.
But maybe we want to add a new method named pay taxes.
Right the only adult object should have access to and babies are just the generic person class should
not have access to pay taxes.
Well check this out since this file is importing the person class.
We can leverage it.
Check this out we can just say new class.
Let's name it.
Adult and then before we type in curly brackets we can say extends Person.
And now add the curly brackets.
So this is going to create a new class named adult and it's going to inherit everything from the Person
class.
This avoids a lot of duplication.
So we don't need to re spell out the functionality of receiving the name and favorite color properties.
We don't need to redefine the Greek method.
The adult class just automatically gets access to all of that.
And then if we want to add a new method that only adults should have pay taxes well within these curly
brackets we can say pay taxes parentheses curly brackets let's drop down inside those curly brackets
and we could say that this method should just console log.
Let's output a message that begins with the person's names.
This dot name plus a string of text at a space in there.
Now owes zero taxes
OK.
Now let's test this out So John can remain just a person.
But let's set things up so that Jane is a new instance of the adult class.
So change this person to adult.
So her name is still Jane Smith her favorite color is still green.
We can still go ahead and let her call the green method that's being inherited from the Person class
but maybe right below that let's say Jane dot pay taxes.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And back in the browser.
Perfect.
So here we see the hello message from John the hello message from Jane.
And then we also see Jane Smith now owes zero taxes.
Cool.
So not only does the class syntax maybe feel a bit more familiar to us if we've used another language
before but it also makes borrowing functionality from other classes a piece of cake right.
It makes inheritance very easy to set up and work with.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close now really quickly I want to thank you for
powering through the last several lessons we've been on a bit of a hypothetical streak right.
So our object oriented programming lesson used hypothetical examples our separate file person module
was hypothetical and our class syntax example was also for a hypothetical object.
Well don't worry because everything from here on out is going to be one hundred percent practical.
We've spent the time to take our javascript game to another level.
And now we are ready to finally get back to finishing our travel Web site together to be more specific
in our next lesson.
We will work on adding the interactive menu for small screens.
This should be a lot of fun.
We are going to get to apply everything we've just learned from the last several lessons.
It's gonna be nice to flex our javascript muscles a bit.
Let's keep rolling along and I will see you in the next lesson.